This website serves a portfolio for my work on a radio series on Local Music and Local Politics through the radio program YouthSpin on Austin’s 91.7 KOOP community radio station. Each piece concerns a new location, where I discuss the ways in which laws, politics, and culture have affected a particular place’s music scene. Each link on the navigation bar on the top will take you to a page where I have an explanation of the piece, streamable audio of the piece through Public Radio Exchange, and links to some further reading, with articles I used for research or mentioned in the piece.

I completed this project during my senior year of high school. I had been working with YouthSpin for all of high school and it was extremely formative for me. YouthSpin helped me develop my skills as a writer, speaker, and audio editor in ways that have informed me on my future ambitions in college and professionally. Through my high school, students have the option to pursue a Senior Honors Project, where we focus on an artistic or research-based project that we complete by the end of the year. I decided that I wanted to do mine through YouthSpin.

Though I had been writing about music for awhile, I had yet to do something this ambitious with it. I had done continuous series before, but nothing that required this much research. My junior year, I had done two pieces on Barack Obama’s relationship with popular music, and I decided I wanted to continue working on politics and music. I was heavily inspired by an article written by Rodney Carmichael for NPR about how Atlanta’s hip hop culture, despite its success, is at odds with the city’s business and political culture. I wanted to explore those themes in other cities across the country.

I was intentionally vague with how I set it up, because I wanted to see where my research took me. As is often the case with these senior projects, what ended up coming out was more focused and less massive than what I pictured. But I still think I was able to cover some interesting ground, learn about the factors that affect local music scenes, and interview some fascinating people that I learned a lot from. I hope you enjoy these pieces as much as I enjoyed making them!

